A Prayer to Jowo Rinpoche Combined with Aspirations and a Means to Receive the Four Empowerments
by Rigdzin Jigme Lingpa

gyalwa tubwang nyinché ni
Victorious one, sun-like lord of sages,
mi jé shying gi drönma té
Light for this world of Patient Endurance,
trulpé dzambü ling dülwa
Emanating to tame the land of Jambudvīpa—
gang la nying né kyab su chi
In you I take refuge, from the very depths of my heart.

khyö ku rig drol nyi den té
Your body is the saṅgha, endowed with knowledge and liberation,
sung ni gok lam den nyi chö
Your speech is the Dharma, true cessation and the path,
tuk ni lama chö kü shyal
Your mind the face of dharmakāya, unsurpassed—
kyil khor gyamtsö daknyi la
To you, who embody an ocean-like infinity of maṇḍalas,
namdak dün dang chab chik tu
I continually make offerings of sevenfold purity,
lü dang longchö tö mé bül
Together with my own body and possessions.
lé kyi shyen wang chi tong yang
Whatever I see of karma’s influence and power,
khyé shé damcha tenpo dzin
I maintain my commitment: to place my trust in you.

khyö shyal tongwé mö nyi la
Now that I behold your perfect face,
mö gü zö lak mépa dé
And feel intense, overpowering devotion,
bumpé wang gi ngowo nyi
As the very essence of the vase empowerment,
lü drip dak né ku dorjé
Inspire me to purify bodily obscurations
data nyi du chin gyi lop
And attain the vajra body here and now!

khyö sung dra tsik rang tsen lé
Your speech transcends ordinary words and language—
dépa sangwa dampé wang
As the empowerment of the perfect secret
dak gi ngak la shyukpé mö
Infuses my own speech, in this very instant,
sung gi dorjé ngödrup tsol
Grant me the attainment of vajra speech!

tuk ni zab shyi trö dang dral
Your mind is profound, peaceful, free from concepts:
dechen changchub sherab wang
May the wisdom empowerment of awakening through great bliss
dak gi namshé tsok gyé la
Merge with my own eight types of consciousness,
dré né tuk kyi dorjer tsol
Transforming them into vajra-like enlightened mind.

gyalwé dzöpu lé kyépé
Through the supreme empowerment of great light-rays,
özer chenpö wang chok gi
Emerging from the urṇa circle between your brows,
shejé dribpa rab pang né
May all that obscures the knowable be cast aside,
kuntu ö kyi sa nön shok
And may I reach the stage of Universal Radiance!

dak la mö dam shé yang rung
Even if they should revile and abuse me,
semchen pamé rang shyin la
May I recognize all beings as my very own parents,
chépa zowé nyingjé yi
And, through the compassion of repaying their past kindness,
khorwa dong né trukpar shok
May I empty saṃsāra from its very depths!

In accordance with a request from the devoted student Chökyi Drakpa, who was accumulating prayers
of aspiration before the Jowo statue of Śākyamuni, this was written by Khyentse Lha
(Jigme Lingpa), scion of the conquerors.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2017.

Version: 1.3-20220112