Guide to Sengchen Namdrak[1]

by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Oṃ svasti!Magnificent embodiment of the Three Roots,Mahāguru Vajra Skull Garland (Dorje Tötrengtsal)—Through
the truth of your compassionate blessings,Quick as lightning, pray confer
blessings and fortune.

Having opened with this scattering of the sweet flowers of auspiciousness, let us consider Sengchen
Namdrak, place of the activity of enlightened qualities among the twenty-five major
sites of Dokham.[2] In the past, the great tertön Düdül Dorje opened this place and wrote
an extensive guidebook.[3] Later, Chokgyur Dechen Lingpa revealed an abundance of profound
termas here. The anniversaries of the revelation of these profound Chokling treasures take
place during the fifth, sixth and seventh months of a mighty monkey year, and also in
the first snake month of a snake year. Düdül Dorje explained how beneficial it is to practice
approach and accomplishment (bsnyen sgrub), feast offering and fulfilment (tshogs skong),
fire offering and so on here during such months and years, as well as how each circumambulation
of the place is equivalent to reciting seven hundred million maṇi mantras. In the
vajra words of Guru Rinpoche:

Now, as to the benefits of this place:Prostrations and circumambulations close the doors to
rebirth in the lower realms.Showing reverence brings rebirth in higher states.Offering gaṇacakra
once yields a vast accumulation of merit.Offering gaṇacakra twice purifies the ripening
of karma.Offering gaṇacakra thrice brings an encounter with me, Padma of Oḍḍiyāna,In
reality or symbolically in dreams or visions.Offering gaṇacakra a hundred times brings rebirth
in a celestial realm.If you wish for the supreme attainment it is won through single-pointed
practice.Such is this sublime place, so significant to all who encounter it: emaho!


Recalling these words with intense faith and devotion, practise the cultivation of virtue and
avoidance of misdeeds in general, and refrain from hunting or the slaughter of wildlife
in particular. There is no doubt that exertions in circumambulation, prostration, making offerings
and the like during pilgrimage gatherings will pacify illness, harmful influences
and obstacles and cause all aspirations to be fulfilled. It is only right, therefore, that
those who seek liberation should strive with intense faith and diligence.

Thus, Chökyi Lodrö, who holds the name of a Khyentse incarnation, wrote this in the upper reaches
of the Lion Rock valley[4] on the first day of the seventh month of the Wood Sheep year.
May it bring virtue and excellence! Maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.